英文导游欢送词(1)
Every guest , everybody are good , I represent (代表)a driver first,the travel service who represents XX welcomes everybody arriving in beautiful sea town- - Dalian , I am a tourist guide of XX travel service member, I am called Meng Li Na  , everybody lets my small Meng can. Front's be a driver X master, the X master driving experience having many years , the driving technology is excellent(驾驶技术高超), is at ease therefore everybody can be complete in the process of bridge crane(所以大家在行车过程中可以完全放心). This several day is served for everybody by our and X master then right away.
There is a sentence in China as the saying goes regards: Construct such that the same boat spends for a century. Today we will be: Repair same car dealer's for a century. Everybody knows each other well from not being acquainted for to meeting in all of us being gone to from different place ride in in the same vehicle with a destination, this is really one kind of very marvellous and fine as well preordained relationship , lets us carry this fine preordained relationship through to the end so right away. That Little meng first here wish everybody trip to Dalian happy, hope we Dalian good mountain, good water, good tourist guide, good driver bring a portion to a portion good state of mind, make everybody with face to face Dalian expectation and long for but come with face to face Dalian satisfied and linger around but return to. Bless everybody Shu eating in Dalian finally中国有句俗话说的好：百年修得同船度。今天我们就是：百年修得同车行。我们大家由不同的地方走到同一个目的地，乘坐在同一辆车里，大家由不相识到相见相知，这真是一种很奇妙而又美好的缘分，那么就让我们将这个美好的缘分进行到底。那小王先在这里预祝大家大连之行愉快，希望我们大连的好山、好水、好导游、好司机给大家带来一份好的心情，使大家带着对大连的期待和憧憬而来带着对大连的满意和流连而归。最后祝大家在大连吃的舒心，玩的开心，住的爽心。
欢送词
That trip to Dalian to master of here will have been over. Believe in more of Dalian public square , big of greenbelt area, clean appearance of a city and Euro-style city construction are stayed by you deeply impression, keeps an incense especially among the Dalian seafood lip and tooth definitely as early as you. 那到这里大家的大连之行就要结束了。相信大连广场之多，绿地面积之大，干净的城市面貌和欧式的城市建设给您留下深深的印象，特别是大连的海鲜一定还在您的唇齿间留香。Little meng thanks everybody's all the way support to my job and understands that also in here. Hope that everybody gets chance to come to Dalian again, small Meng and my location （所在）XX travel service will be that you provide (提供)the service using more well. Wish everybody's returning journey all smooth God-speed finally! 最后祝大家归途一切顺利一路平安
