英语导游欢送词（Farewell&nbsp;speech）
英语导游欢送词（Farewell speech）(1)
Respected Dr. Mills, leader of People-to-People Forensic Science delegation and Mrs. Mills.
Respected Mr. Lucas, leader of the delegation and Mrs. Lucas.
Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and friends.
Time goes so quickly and your trip to China is drawing to a close. Tomorrow morning our friends will be leaving Guangzhou for Hong Kong by train. Before wee part, I would like to say a few words. Entrusted by the Ministry of Public Security, Miss Chao and I took on the responsibility of doing logistics on behalf of the China Civil International Touristt Corporation during your stay in China. Your duration of stay in this country was only two and half weeks ` time. You visited Beijing, which is the capital of the People` s Republic of China, Then the delegation was divided into two teams. Dr. Mill` s team went to Shenyang and Guilin and Mr. Lucas ` team toured Shanghai and Hangzhou. Shanghai and Shenyang are industrious cities, while Guilin and Hangzhou are scenic spots. In China people usually say : up above there is paradise, down below there are Suzhou and Hanggzhou. Guilin claims to be second to none in scenery. (Guilin scenes are the finest under heaven.) In 1985 an English newspapar “China Tourism news” sponsored a poll for the Chinese people to select the ten most popular scenic spots in China. The West lake of Hangzhou, and mountains and waters of Guilin were on the top of the ten. Finally, the two teams came to Guangzhou by air in different directions. While the delegation members were in China, they exchanged the technical information with the Chinese professional counterparts about forensic sciences, visited several criminal science and technology research institutes, the China Criminal Police College, a jail and hospital.
The accompanying persons toured some unique place. Examples of these were a township, an arts and crafts factory, a kindergarten, jade factory and ivory carving factories, and carpet factory. The whole delegation also toured the grounds of some famous historical spots in China. They had several banquets and tasted the different varieties of Chinese food in different places. It is our belief that everything was covered, and your trip to this country was worth “all the tea in China. ” You were in good hands and good company. While you were and are in China, the delegation members have been very co-operative, friendly, and understanding .We appreciated that very much . This is because that friendship does not go on way, it goes both ways. Friendship always benefits.
When you lead a delegation of 65 people with the assistance of our American and Canadian friends, it is easy. As the Chinese saying goes: “Nothing is more delightful than to meet friend from far away. ””A visit by friends from afar bring special joy. We tend to do well those things we do often.”Once your former President Abraham Lincoln said: ”You can please some of the people all of the time, some of the other people some of the time, but you cannot please all of the people all of the time.”
However, this is the beginning of our friendship. We believe that this friendship will continue to grow in the furture.
Parting is such sweet sorrow. Happy to meet, sorry to depart and happy to meet again.
Upon your arrival in the United States of America and Canada, would you please send our best regards to your family members, your relative, your friends, and your colleagues.
Make new friend,
But keep the old ;
One is silver,
And the other is gold.
Now I propose a toast:
To the friendship among the peoples of China, America and Canada
To the successful visit of the delegation to China
To your excellent co-operation and assistance during your stay in China
To the health of Dr. Mills, leader of the delegation and Mrs. Mills
To the health of Mr. Lucas, leader of the delegation and Mrs. Lucas
To the health of all the delegation members , cheers.
